---
title: Faithful Verifier
description: An overview of the Project Amber Faithful Verifier utility.
author:
topic: conceptual
date: 03/14/2023
---

# Faithful Verifier

The Project Amber Faithful Verifier (FV) tool is a Linux command-line utility that is used to verify the fidelity of a Project Amber token. The Faithful Verifier tool can be downloaded from the Project Amber web interface downloads page.

> [!NOTE]
> The Faithful Verifier feature is available only with a Project Amber Premium subscription.

## Faithful verification

A token is "faithful" when it is generated by authentic Project Amber services in attested Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs). When Project Amber microservices that are involved in token generation start, they initialize TEE environments to contain attestation signing assets and other secrets. All token generation processing occurs in these TEEs, and protected certificates and keys are released only to microservice instances that meet TEE quoting requirements. In this way, the attestation information for each of these microservices is stored in a Faithful Verification ledger and referenced by every Amber token generated.

These ledger references in an Amber token can be used to validate the specific microservice instances that produced that token and retrieve their TEE attestation information. The FV can both retrieve this attestation report, and independently validate the TEE quotes. In this way an Amber user can audit the secure processing of Amber tokens.

> [!NOTE]
> All Project Amber tokens have an expiration time, and the FV process must be completed for a given Amber token before it expires. This feature is intended for use with recently-created tokens, not historical audits.

## Downloading the Faithful Verifier

The Faithful Verifier is a downloadable executable found on the Project Amber Downloads page.

## Operating system support

The Faithful Verifier is supported on Ubuntu 20.04.

## Prerequisites

The Faithful Verifier requires  Intel® Software Guard Extensions Data Center Attestation Primitives (Intel® SGX DCAP) for quote verification. This means that Intel SGX DCAP must be installed on the system where FV will run, and the system must also have access to Intel® Software Guard Extensions Provisioning Certification Service (Intel® SGX Provisioning Certification Service) for Intel SGX collaterals.

### Installing Intel SGX DCAP libraries

Add the Intel SGX repository and install the Intel SGX DCAP library packages:

```bash
echo 'deb [arch=amd64] https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx_repo/ubuntu focal main' > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/intel-sgx.list
wget -qO - https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx_repo/ubuntu/intel-sgx-deb.key | apt-key add -
apt-get update
apt-get install -y libsgx-urts libsgx-dcap-quote-verify-dev libsgx-dcap-default-qpl
```
Edit `/etc/sgx_default_qcnl.conf` (pointing DCAP to use PCCS at https://api.trustedservices.intel.com/sgx/certification/v3/)

```json
{
  // *** ATTENTION : This file is in JSON format and the keys are case sensitive. Don't change them.
 
  //PCCS server address
  "pccs_url": "https://api.trustedservices.intel.com/sgx/certification/v3/",
 
  // To accept insecure HTTPS certificate, set this option to false
  "use_secure_cert": true,
 
...
```

## Retrieving a faithful verification report

FV requires a Project Amber attestation token to begin.  Save the token to a file (for example, `token.jwt`) on the system where the Faithful Verifier runs.

Run the Faithful Verifier "report" function, providing a Project Amber API key for a tenant with a premium subscription, and the attestation token:

```bash
./faithful-verifier report -a <apikey> -t token.jwt
```

The Faithful Verifier will output the report to `/root/fvreport.json`.

## Verifying a report

The Faithful Verifier can also be used to verify the facts asserted by the faithful verification report. It does this by independently validating the Intel® SGX quotes for each of the quoted services using the Intel® SGX DCAP libraries and the Intel® SGX PCCS server—validating the quote itself, without using any Project Amber attestation resources. In this way the "faithfulness" of the Amber token can be verified by a third party without relying only on Project Amber's assertion.  

> [!NOTE]
> The verify function requires the faithful verification report to be present in `/root/fvreport.json`

```bash
./faithful-verifier verify
```
Sample output:
```bash
Verification passed, results saved at: /root/faithfulservices.json
```
The content of the verification output includes comparisons of each faithful service against the permit-list as well as an independent verification that the service Intel SGX quotes are valid.  If both of these facts are true, then the service will be reported as "faithful."

```json
{
        "93af5a99-5c0b-431b-b80d-2595ea2b9581": [
                "Service record quote for quote-verification-service with id: 93af5a99-5c0b-431b-b80d-2595ea2b9581 is valid",
                "quote-verification-service with id: 93af5a99-5c0b-431b-b80d-2595ea2b9581 passed verification against permitlist",
                "quote-verification-service with id: 93af5a99-5c0b-431b-b80d-2595ea2b9581 is faithful"
        ],
        "c4310ed7-5151-4d99-a852-5e5909461a2b": [
                "Service record quote for appraisal-service with id: c4310ed7-5151-4d99-a852-5e5909461a2b is valid",
                "appraisal-service with id: c4310ed7-5151-4d99-a852-5e5909461a2b passed verification against permitlist",
                "appraisal-service with id: c4310ed7-5151-4d99-a852-5e5909461a2b is faithful"
        ]
}
```

## Additional CLI details

```bash
Faithful Verifier CLI is used for getting and verifying amber faithful services

Usage:
  faithful-verifier [command]

Available Commands:
  completion  Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell
  help        Help about any command
  report      Get report from amber faithful verification controller
  verify      Verifies the faithful verification report

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for faithful-verifier
```
